CHAPTERS 37-39
OF THE BOOK OF ISAIAH
THIS IS A LIBROVOX RECORDING
ALL LIBROVOX RECORDINGS
ARE IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN
FOR MORE INFORMATION
OR TO VOLUNTEER
PLEASE VISIT LIBROVOX DOT ORG
RECORDING BY SIMON WAYNEWRIGHT
THE BOOK OF ISAIAH
KING JAMES VERSION
CHAPTER 37
And it came to pass,
when King Hezekiah heard it,
that he rent his clothes,
and covered himself with sackcloth,
and went into the house of the Lord.
And he sent Ilekin,
who was over the household of Shebna,
the scribe,
and the elders of the priests
covered with sackcloth
unto Isaiah the prophet,
the son of Amoz.
And they said unto him,
Thus saith Hezekiah,
This day is a day of trouble,
and of rebuke,
and of blasphemy.
For the children are come to birth,
and there is not strength
to bring forth.
It may be the Lord thy God
will hear the words of Rebshaka,
whom the king of Assyria,
his master, hath sent
to reproach the living God,
and will reprove the words
which the Lord thy God hath heard,
wherefore lift up thy prayer
for the remnant that is left.
So the servants of King Hezekiah
came to Isaiah,
and Isaiah said unto them,
Thus shall ye say unto your master,
Thus saith the Lord,
Be not afraid of the words
of that thou hast heard,
wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria
have blasphemed me.
Behold, I will send a blast upon him,
and he shall hear a rumor,
and return to his own land,
and I will cause him to fall
by the sword in his own land.
So Rebshaka returned
and found the king of Assyria
warring against Libna,
for he had heard that he was
departed from Lekish.
And he heard saying concerning,
Terhakka, king of Ethiopia,
he is come forth to make war with thee,
and when he heard it,
he sent messages to Hezekiah saying,
Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah,
king of Judah, saying,
Let not thy God in whom thou trustest
deceive thee,
saying Jerusalem shall not be given
into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Behold, thou hast heard
what the kings of Assyria have done
to all lands by destroying them utterly,
and shalt thou be delivered?
Have the gods of the nations delivered them
which my fathers have destroyed
in Gozan, and Haran, and Rezef,
and the children of Eden,
which were in Tel Azhar?
Where is the king of Hamath,
and the king of Arphad,
and the king of the city of Sephirvaeum,
Hanna, and Iva?
And Hezekiah received the letter
from the hand of the messengers,
and read it, and Hezekiah went up
into the house of the Lord,
and spread it before the Lord,
and Hezekiah prayed unto the Lord,
saying, O Lord of hosts,
God of Israel,
thou dwellest between the cherubim,
thou art God even thou alone.
Of all the kingdoms of the earth,
thou hast made heaven and earth.
Incline thine ear, O Lord, and hear.
Open thine eyes, O Lord, and see,
and hear all the words of Sennacherib,
which hath sent to reproach the living God.
Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria
have laid waste all the nations
and their countries,
and have cast their gods into the fire,
for they were no gods,
but the work of men's hands, wood, and stone.
Therefore, they have destroyed them.
Now therefore, O Lord, our God,
save us from His hand,
that all the kingdoms of the earth may know
that thou art the Lord even thou only.
Then Isaiah, the son of Amoz,
sent unto Hezekiah, saying,
Thus saith the Lord God of Israel,
whereas thou hast prayed to me
against Sennacherib, king of Assyria,
this is the word which the Lord
hath spoken concerning him.
The virgin, the daughter of Zion,
hath despised thee,
and lathed thee to scorn,
the daughter of Jerusalem
hath shaken her head at thee.
Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed,
and against whom hast thou exalted thy voice,
and lifted up thine eyes on high,
even against the Holy One of Israel?
By thy servants hast thou reproached the Lord,
and hast said, by the multitude of my chariots
am I come up to the height of the mountains,
to the sides of Lebanon,
and I will cut down the tall cedars thereof,
and the choice fir trees thereof,
and I will enter into the height of His border,
and the forest of His camel.
I have digged and drunk water,
and with the sole of my feet
have I dried up all the rivers of the besieged places.
Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it,
and of ancient times that I have formed it?
Now have I brought it to pass,
that thou shouldest be to lay waste
defensed cities into ruinous heaps.
Therefore their inhabitants were of small power,
they were dismayed and confounded,
they were as the grass of the field,
and as the green herb,
as the grass on the housetops,
and as corn blasted before it be grown up.
But I know thy abode,
and thy going out and thy coming in,
and thy rage against me,
because thy rage against me,
and thy tumult is come up into mine ears,
therefore will I put my hook in thy nose,
and my bridle in thy lips,
and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest,
and this shall be a sign unto thee.
Ye shall eat this year which as groweth of itself,
and the second year that which springeth of the same,
and in the third year sow ye and reap,
and plant vineyards, and eat the fruit thereof.
And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah,
shall take root downward and bear fruit upward.
For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant,
and they that escape out of Mount Zion,
the zeal of the Lord of hosts shall do this.
Therefore, thus sayeth the Lord
concerning the king of Assyria,
he shall not come into this city,
nor shoot an arrow there,
nor come before it with shields,
nor cast a bank against it.
By the way that he came, by the same shall he return,
and shall not come into this city, sayeth the Lord.
For I will defend this city,
to save it for mine own sake,
and for my servant David's sake.
Then the angel of the Lord went forth
and smote in the camp of the Assyrians
in hundred and four score and five thousand,
and when they arose early in the morning,
behold, they were all dead corpses.
So Sennacherib, king of Assyria departed
and went and returned and dwelt at Nineveh,
and he came to pass as he was worshiping
in the house of Nishrach, his god,
that Adramalek and Sherazer,
his sons, smote him with the sword,
and they escaped into the land of Armenia,
and Esharahadon, his son, reigned in his stead.
Chapter 38.
In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death,
and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz,
came unto him and said unto him,
Thus saith the Lord, set thine house in order,
for thou shalt die and not live.
Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall
and prayed unto the Lord and said,
Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee,
how I have walked before thee in truth
and with a perfect heart,
and have done that which is good in thy sight.
And Hezekiah wept, soared.
Then came the word of the Lord to Isaiah saying,
Go and say to Hezekiah,
Thus saith the Lord, the God of David, thy father,
I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears.
Behold, I will add unto thy days 15 years,
and I will deliver thee and this city
out of the hand of the king of Assyria,
and I will defend this city.
And this shall be a sign unto thee from the Lord
that the Lord will do this thing that he hath spoken.
Behold, I will bring again the shadow of the degrees
which is gone down in the sundial of Ahaz,
10 degrees backward.
So the sun returned, 10 degrees,
by which degrees it was gone down.
The writing of Hezekiah, king of Judah,
when he had been sick and was recovered of his sickness,
I said in the cutting off of my days,
I shall go to the gates of the grave.
I am deprived of the residue of my years.
I said, I shall not see the Lord,
even the Lord in the land of the living.
I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the world.
Mine age is departed and is removed from me
as a shepherd's tent.
I have cut off like a weaver my life.
He will cut me off with pining sickness from day.
Even tonight wilt thou make an end of me.
I reckoned till morning that as a lion,
so will he break all my bones.
From day even tonight wilt thou make an end of me.
Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter.
I did mourn as a dove.
Mine eyes failed with looking upward.
Oh Lord, I am oppressed.
Undertake for me, what shall I say?
He hath both spoken unto me and himself hath done it.
I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.
Oh Lord, by these things men live.
And in all these things is the life of my spirit.
So wilt thou recover me and make me to live.
Behold for peace, I had great bitterness,
but thou hast in love to my soul delivered it
from the pit of corruption.
For thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back.
For the grave cannot praise thee.
Death cannot celebrate thee.
They that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth.
The living, the living he shall praise thee
as I do this day.
The father to the children shall make known thy truth.
The Lord was ready to save me.
Therefore we will sing my songs to the stringed instruments
all the days of our life in the house of the Lord.
For Isaiah had said, let them take a lump of figs
and lay it for a plaster upon the boil and he shall recover.
Hezekiah also had said, what is the sign
that I shall go up to the house of the Lord?
Chapter 39.
At that time, Merodach Baladon,
the son of Baladon, king of Babylon,
sent letters and a present to Hezekiah.
For he had heard that he had been sick and was recovered.
And Hezekiah was glad of them and showed them
the house of his precious things,
the silver and the gold and the spices
and the precious ointment and all the house of his armor.
And all that was found in his treasures.
There was nothing in his house,
nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah showed them not.
Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah
and said unto him, what said these men?
And from whence came they unto thee?
And Hezekiah said, they are come from a far country
unto me, even from Babylon.
Then said he, what have they seen in thine house?
And Hezekiah answered, all that is in mine house
have they seen, there is nothing among my treasures
that I have not showed them.
Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah,
hear the word of the Lord of hosts.
Behold the days come that all that is in thine house
and that which thy fathers have laid up in store
until this day shall be carried to Babylon.
Nothing shall be left, saith the Lord.
And of thy sons that shall issue from thee,
which thou shalt beget, shall they take away
and they shall be eunuchs in the palace
of the king of Babylon.
Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah,
good is the word of the Lord which thou hast spoken.
He said moreover, for there shall be peace
and truth in my days.
End of chapters 37 through 39.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.